A stock market, equity market, or share market is the aggregation of buyers and sellers of stocks (also called shares), which represent ownership claims on businesses; these may include securities listed on a public stock exchange, as well as stock that is only traded privately, such as shares of private companies which are sold to investors through equity crowdfunding platforms. Investment is usually made with an investment strategy in mind.
A stock exchange is an exchange (or bourse) where stockbrokers and traders can buy and sell shares (equity stock), bonds, and other securities. Many large companies have their stocks listed on a stock exchange. This makes the stock more liquid and thus more attractive to many investors. The exchange may also act as a guarantor of settlement. These and other stocks may also be traded "over the counter" (OTC), that is, through a dealer. Some large companies will have their stock listed on more than one exchange in different countries, so as to attract international investors.

Stock exchanges may also cover other types of securities, such as fixed-interest securities (bonds) or (less frequently) derivatives, which are more likely to be traded OTC.

Trade in stock markets means the transfer (in exchange for money) of a stock or security from a seller to a buyer. This requires these two parties to agree on a price. Equities (stocks or shares) confer an ownership interest in a particular company.

Participants in the stock market range from small individual stock investors to larger investors, who can be based anywhere in the world, and may include banks, insurance companies, pension funds and hedge funds. Their buy or sell orders may be executed on their behalf by a stock exchange trader.

Some exchanges are physical locations where transactions are carried out on a trading floor, by a method known as open outcry. This method is used in some stock exchanges and commodities exchanges, and involves traders shouting bid and offer prices. The other type of stock exchange has a network of computers where trades are made electronically. An example of such an exchange is the NASDAQ.

A potential buyer bids a specific price for a stock, and a potential seller asks a specific price for the same stock. Buying or selling at the Market means you will accept any ask price or bid price for the stock. When the bid and ask prices match, a sale takes place, on a first-come, first-served basis if there are multiple bidders at a given price.

The purpose of a stock exchange is to facilitate the exchange of securities between buyers and sellers, thus providing a marketplace. The exchanges provide real-time trading information on the listed securities, facilitating price discovery.

The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is a physical exchange, with a hybrid market for placing orders electronically from any location as well as on the trading floor. Orders executed on the trading floor enter by way of exchange members and flow down to a floor broker, who submits the order electronically to the floor trading post for the Designated market maker ("DMM") for that stock to trade the order. The DMM's job is to maintain a two-sided market, making orders to buy and sell the security when there are no other buyers or sellers. If a bid–ask spread exists, no trade immediately takes place – in this case, the DMM may use their own resources (money or stock) to close the difference. Once a trade has been made, the details are reported on the "tape" and sent back to the brokerage firm, which then notifies the investor who placed the order. Computers play an important role, especially for program trading.

The NASDAQ is an electronic exchange, where all of the trading is done over a computer network. The process is similar to the New York Stock Exchange. One or more NASDAQ market makers will always provide a bid and ask the price at which they will always purchase or sell 'their' stock.

Market participants include individual retail investors, institutional investors (e.g., pension funds, insurance companies, mutual funds, index funds, exchange-traded funds, hedge funds, investor groups, banks and various other financial institutions), and also publicly traded corporations trading in their own shares. Robo-advisors, which automate investment for individuals are also major participants.

Even in the days before perestroika, socialism was never a monolith. Within the Communist countries, the spectrum of socialism ranged from the quasi-market, quasi-syndicalist system of Yugoslavia to the centralized totalitarianism of neighboring Albania. One time I asked Professor von Mises, the great expert on the economics of socialism, at what point on this spectrum of statism would he designate a country as "socialist" or not. At that time, I wasn't sure that any definite criterion existed to make that sort of clear-cut judgment. And so I was pleasantly surprised at the clarity and decisiveness of Mises's answer. "A stock market," he answered promptly. "A stock market is crucial to the existence of capitalism and private property. For it means that there is a functioning market in the exchange of private titles to the means of production. There can be no genuine private ownership of capital without a stock market: there can be no true socialism if such a market is allowed to exist."



The stock market is one of the most important ways for companies to raise money, along with debt markets which are generally more imposing but do not trade publicly. This allows businesses to be publicly traded, and raise additional financial capital for expansion by selling shares of ownership of the company in a public market. The liquidity that an exchange affords the investors enables their holders to quickly and easily sell securities. This is an attractive feature of investing in stocks, compared to other less liquid investments such as property and other immoveable assets.

History has shown that the price of stocks and other assets is an important part of the dynamics of economic activity, and can influence or be an indicator of social mood. An economy where the stock market is on the rise is considered to be an up-and-coming economy. The stock market is often considered the primary indicator of a country's economic strength and development.

Rising share prices, for instance, tend to be associated with increased business investment and vice versa. Share prices also affect the wealth of households and their consumption. Therefore, central banks tend to keep an eye on the control and behavior of the stock market and, in general, on the smooth operation of financial system functions. Financial stability is the raison d'être of central banks.

Exchanges also act as the clearinghouse for each transaction, meaning that they collect and deliver the shares, and guarantee payment to the seller of a security. This eliminates the risk to an individual buyer or seller that the counterparty could default on the transaction.

The smooth functioning of all these activities facilitates economic growth in that lower costs and enterprise risks promote the production of goods and services as well as possibly employment. In this way the financial system is assumed to contribute to increased prosperity, although some controversy exists as to whether the optimal financial system is bank-based or market-based.

Recent events such as the Global Financial Crisis have prompted a heightened degree of scrutiny of the impact of the structure of stock markets(called market microstructure), in particular to the stability of the financial system and the transmission of systemic risk.


Many strategies can be classified as either fundamental analysis or technical analysis. Fundamental analysis refers to analyzing companies by their financial statements found in SEC filings, business trends, and general economic conditions. Technical analysis studies price actions in markets through the use of charts and quantitative techniques to attempt to forecast price trends based on historical performance, regardless of the company's financial prospects. One example of a technical strategy is the Trend following method, used by John W. Henry and Ed Seykota, which uses price patterns and is also rooted in risk management and diversification.

Additionally, many choose to invest via passive index funds. In this method, one holds a portfolio of the entire stock market or some segment of the stock market (such as the S&P 500 Index or Wilshire 5000). The principal aim of this strategy is to maximize diversification, minimize taxes from realizing gains, and ride the general trend of the stock market to rise.

Responsible investment emphasizes and requires a long-term horizon on the basis of fundamental analysis only, avoiding hazards in the expected return of the investment. Socially responsible investing is another investment preference.


Common stock and preferred stock
Most stock that people invest in is common stock. Common stock represents partial ownership in a company, with shareholders getting the right to receive a proportional share of the value of any remaining assets if the company gets dissolved. Common stock gives shareholders theoretically unlimited upside potential, but they also risk losing everything if the company fails without having any assets left over.

Preferred stock works differently, as it gives shareholders a preference over common shareholders to get back a certain amount of money if the company dissolves. Preferred shareholders also have the right to receive dividend payments before common shareholders do. The net result is that preferred stock as an investment often more closely resembles fixed-income bond investments than regular common stock. Often, a company will offer only common stock. This makes sense, as that is what shareholders most often seek to buy.

Large-cap, mid-cap, and small-cap stocks
Stocks also get categorized by the total worth of all their shares, which is called market capitalization. Companies with the biggest market capitalizations are called large-cap stocks, with mid-cap and small-cap stocks representing successively smaller companies.

There's no precise line that separates these categories from each other. However, one often-used rule is that stocks with market capitalizations of $10 billion or more are treated as large-caps, with stocks having market caps between $2 billion and $10 billion qualifying as mid-caps and stocks with market caps below $2 billion getting treated as small-cap stocks.

Large-cap stocks are generally considered safer and more conservative as investments, while mid caps and small caps have greater capacity for future growth but are riskier. However, just because two companies fall into the same category here doesn't mean they have anything else in common as investments or that they'll perform in similar ways in the future.

Domestic stocks and international stocks
You can categorize stocks by where they're located. For purposes of distinguishing domestic U.S. stocks from international stocks, most investors look at the location of the company's official headquarters.

However, it's important to understand that a stock's geographical category doesn't necessarily correspond to where the company gets its sales. Philip Morris International (NYSE:PM) is a great example, as its headquarters are in the U.S., but it sells its tobacco and other products exclusively outside the country. Especially among large multinational corporations, it can be hard to tell from business operations and financial metrics whether a company is truly domestic or international.

Growth stocks and value stocks
Another categorization method distinguishes between two popular investment methods. Growth investors tend to look for companies that are seeing their sales and profits rise quickly. Value investors look for companies whose shares are inexpensive, whether relative to their peers or to their own past stock price.

Growth stocks tend to have higher risk levels, but the potential returns can be extremely attractive. Successful growth stocks have businesses that tap into strong and rising demand among customers, especially in connection with longer-term trends throughout society that support the use of their products and services. Competition can be fierce, though, and if rivals disrupt a growth stock's business, it can fall from favor quickly. Sometimes, even just a growth slowdown is enough to send prices sharply lower, as investors fear that long-term growth potential is waning.

Value stocks, on the other hand, are seen as being more conservative investments. They're often mature, well-known companies that have already grown into industry leaders and therefore don't have as much room left to expand further. Yet with reliable business models that have stood the test of time, they can be good choices for those seeking more price stability while still getting some of the positives of exposure to stocks.

IPO stocks
IPO stocks are stocks of companies that have recently gone public through an initial public offering. IPOs often generate a lot of excitement among investors looking to get in on the ground floor of a promising business concept. But they can also be volatile, especially when there's disagreement within the investment community about their prospects for growth and profit. A stock generally retains its status as an IPO stock for at least a year and for as long as two to four years after it becomes public.

Dividend stocks and non-dividend stocks
Many stocks make dividend payments to their shareholders on a regular basis. Dividends provide valuable income for investors, and that makes dividend stocks highly sought after among certain investment circles. Technically, paying even $0.01 per share qualifies a company as a dividend stock.

However, stocks don't have to pay dividends. Non-dividend stocks can still be strong investments if their prices rise over time. Some of the biggest companies in the world don't pay dividends, although the trend in recent years has been toward more stocks making dividend payouts to their shareholders.

Income stocks
Income stocks are another name for dividend stocks, as the income that most stocks pay out comes in the form of dividends. However, income stocks also refer to shares of companies that have more mature business models and have relatively fewer long-term opportunities for growth. Ideal for conservative investors who need to draw cash from their investment portfolios right now, income stocks are a favorite among those in or nearing retirement.

Cyclical stocks and non-cyclical stocks
National economies tend to follow cycles of expansion and contraction, with periods of prosperity and recession. Certain businesses have greater exposure to broad business cycles, and investors therefore refer to them as cyclical stocks.

Cyclical stocks include shares of companies in industries like manufacturing, travel, and luxury goods, because an economic downturn can take away customers' ability to make major purchases quickly. When economies are strong, however, a rush of demand can make these companies rebound sharply.

By contrast, non-cyclical stocks, also known as secular or defensive stocks, don't have those big swings in demand. An example of non-cyclical stocks would be grocery store chains, because no matter how good or bad the economy is, people still have to eat. Non-cyclical stocks tend to perform better during market downturns, while cyclical stocks often outperform during strong bull markets.

Safe stocks
Safe stocks are stocks whose share prices make relatively small movements up and down compared with the overall stock market. Also known as low-volatility stocks, safe stocks typically operate in industries that aren't as sensitive to changing economic conditions. They often pay dividends as well, and that income can offset falling share prices during tough times.

Stocks categorized by sector
You'll often see stocks broken down by the type of business they're in. The basic categories most often used include stock market sectors:

Communication Services -- telephone, internet, media, and entertainment companies
Consumer Discretionary -- retailers, automakers, and hotel and restaurant companies
Consumer Staples -- food, beverage, tobacco, and household and personal products companies
Energy -- oil and gas exploration and production companies, pipeline providers, and gas station operators
Financial -- banks, mortgage finance specialists, and insurance and brokerage companies
Healthcare -- health insurers, drug and biotech companies, and medical device makers
Industrial -- airline, aerospace and defense, construction, logistics, machinery, and railroad companies
Materials -- mining, forest products, construction materials, packaging, and chemical companies
Real Estate -- real estate investment trusts and real estate management and development companies
Technology -- hardware, software, semiconductor, communications equipment, and IT services companies
Utilities -- electric, natural gas, water, renewable energy, and multi-product utility companies


ESG stocks
ESG investing refers to an investment philosophy that puts emphasis on environmental, social, and governance concerns. Rather than focusing entirely on whether a company generates profit and is growing its revenue over time, ESG principles consider other collateral impacts on the environment, company employees, customers, and shareholder rights.

Tied to ESG's governing rules is socially responsible investing, or SRI. Investors using SRI screen out stocks of companies that don't match up to their most important values. However, ESG investing has a more positive element in that rather than just excluding companies that fail key tests, it actively encourages investing in the companies that do things the best. With evidence showing that a clear commitment to ESG principles can improve investing returns, there's a lot of interest in the area.

Blue chip stocks
Finally, there are stock categories that make judgments based on perceived quality. Blue Chip stocks tend to be the cream of the crop in the business world, featuring companies that lead their respective industries and have gained strong reputations. They typically don't provide the absolute highest returns, but their stability makes them favorites among investors with lower tolerance for risk.

Penny stocks
By contrast, penny stocks are low-quality companies whose stock prices are extremely inexpensive, typically less than $1 per share. With dangerously speculative business models, penny stocks are prone to schemes that can drain your entire investment. It's important to know about the dangers of penny stocks.

You've probably heard that portfolio diversification is important for developing strong, stable investments. Keep all of these stock classifications in mind as you plan for diversity -- investing across companies of different market capitalizations, geographies, and investing styles contributes to a well-balanced portfolio.The Nasdaq Stock Market (National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations Stock Market) is an American stock exchange based in New York City. It is ranked second on the list of stock exchanges by market capitalization of shares traded, behind the New York Stock Exchange. The exchange platform is owned by Nasdaq, which also owns the Nasdaq Nordic stock market network and several U.S.-based stock and options exchanges.

"Nasdaq" was initially an acronym for the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations. It was founded in 1971 by the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), now known as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). On February 8, 1971, the Nasdaq stock market began operations as the world's first electronic stock market. At first, it was merely a "quotation system" and did not provide a way to perform electronic trades.

The Nasdaq Stock Market has three different market tiers:

Capital Market (NASDAQ-CM small cap) is an equity market for companies that have relatively small levels of market capitalization. Listing requirements for such "small cap" companies are less stringent than for other Nasdaq markets that list larger companies with significantly higher market capitalization.
Global Market (NASDAQ-GM mid cap) is made up of stocks that represent the Nasdaq Global Market. The Global Market consists of 1,450 stocks that meet Nasdaq's strict financial and liquidity requirements, and corporate governance standards. The Global Market is less exclusive than the Global Select Market.
Global Select Market (NASDAQ-GS large cap) is a market capitalization-weighted index made up of US-based and international stocks that represent the NASDAQ Global Select Market Composite (NQGS). The Global Select Market consists of 1,200 stocks that meet Nasdaq's strict financial and liquidity requirements and corporate governance standards. The Global Select Market is more exclusive than the Global Market. Every October, the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department reviews the Global Market Composite to determine if any of its stocks have become eligible for listing on the Global Select Market.


The term “Nasdaq” is also used to refer to the Nasdaq Composite, an index of more than 3,700 stocks listed on the Nasdaq exchange that includes technology giants Apple Inc. (AAPL), Microsoft (MSFT), Google parent Alphabet (GOOG, GOOGL), Meta Platforms Inc. (META), Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) and Tesla Inc. (TSLA).


Nasdaq officially separated from the NASD and began to operate as a national securities exchange in 2006. In 2008, it combined with the Scandinavian exchanges group OMX to become the Nasdaq OMX Group.

The company changed its name to Nasdaq Inc. (NDAQ) in 2015. Headquartered in New York, the Nasdaq operates 29 markets enabling the trading of stocks, derivatives, fixed income and commodities in the U.S., Canada, Scandinavia and the Baltics. the company also runs a clearinghouse and five central securities depositories in the United States and Europe.
Its trading technology is used by 100 exchanges in 50 countries. Nasdaq Inc is listed on the Nasdaq stock market under the symbol NDAQ and has been part of the S&P 500 Index since 2008.

Nasdaq generates revenue from clients, including financial institutions, brokers, institutional investors, and corporations. Nasdaq's revenue is mainly derived from fees charged for the following:

Market services, which give investors access to various markets
Investment intelligence: data, indices, and investment analytics for financial institutions, brokers, and asset managers
Market technology, which includes trading and settlement platforms as well as technology safeguards against financial crime
Corporate services, such as listing fees and investment relations services
For Q1 2022 ended March 31, Nasdaq reported net income of $283 million on revenue of $1.54 billion, and revenue less transaction-based expenses of $892 million. The company also increased the quarterly dividend by 11% to $0.60 per share and announced plans to seek SEC and shareholder approval for a 3-to-1 stock split to be completed in the third quarter of 2022.


Because it is an electronic exchange, the NASDAQ offers no trading floor. The exchange itself is a dealers’ market, so brokers buy and sell stocks through a market maker rather than from each other directly. A market maker handles a specific stock and holds a certain amount of stock in his or her books. When a broker wants to purchase shares, he or she does it directly from the market maker.

When the NASDAQ first began, stock trading took place over a computer bulletin board system and through the telephone. Now, trading on the NASDAQ occurs using automated trading systems, which offer full financial reports on trades and daily trading volumes. Automated trading also offers automatic execution of trades based on parameters set by the trader.

The listing fees on the NASDAQ are significantly lower than other stock markets, with the maximum price set at $150,000. This low fee enables the trading of many new, high-growth and volatile stocks.

While the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is still considered a bigger exchange because its market capitalization is much higher, the NASDAQ has a greater trading volume than any other U.S. exchange – with approximately 1.8 billion trades per day.

With no trading floor, NASDAQ built the NASDAQ MarketSite in Manhattan’s Times Square to create a tangible physical presence. The large outdoor electronic display gives current financial information on the tower 24/7. Trading takes place Monday through Friday, 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Eastern time, except for major holidays.

While there are many nuances to the way NASDAQ works behind the scenes, it’s very simple for investors who want to trade stocks on the NASDAQ. Stocks that trade on the NASDAQ are freely available for trading on any major stock-trading platform, just like those that trade on the NYSE.

To trade stocks listed on the NASDAQ exchange, all an investor needs to do is set up a brokerage account on a platform like E-Trade or TD Ameritrade, fund the account, find the securities they want to trade and place an order.

In fact, most major trading platforms allow commission-free trading for stocks listed on the NASDAQ – the same way they do for those that trade on the NYSE.

Like any stock exchange, the NASDAQ uses indexes, which are a collection of industry-specific stocks. The indexes can be used to deliver a snapshot on the performance of the current market. Just as the NYSE offers the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) as its primary index, NASDAQ offers the NASDAQ Composite and the NASDAQ 100.

The NASDAQ Composite Index measures the change in more than 3,000 stocks traded on NASDAQ, whereas the DJIA measures the peaks and troughs of 30 large companies. The NASDAQ Composite is often referred to as just “the NASDAQ” and is the index most often quoted by financial journalists and reporters.

The NASDAQ 100 is a modified capitalization-weighted index made up of the 100 largest companies in market value that trade on the NASDAQ. These companies cover a range of market sectors, though the largest are generally technology-related. Companies can be added and removed each year from the NASDAQ 100 depending on their market value.

Both the NASDAQ Composite and the NASDAQ 100 include U.S. companies and businesses outside the country. This differs from other major indexes, as the DJIA currently only consists of U.S. companies.

The NASDAQ exchange is significant because it was the first exchange that offered investors the ability to trade stocks transparently through an automated system. Today, the NASDAQ’s automated trading has become commonplace among other exchanges, but the NASDAQ remains unique because of its focus on high-tech companies.

The NASDAQ is also important because it’s relatively easier for companies to list on this exchange than others, such as the NYSE. This way, more businesses become publicly listed so investors can buy and sell their shares.

Lastly, the NASDAQ exchange offers investors a way to invest in much more volatile, potentially higher-growth securities than other exchanges that offer more stable, conservative companies.
Cannabidiol (CBD) can be taken internally in multiple ways, including by inhaling cannabis smoke or vapor, by mouth, and as an aerosol spray into the cheek. It may be supplied as CBD oil containing only CBD as the active ingredient (excluding tetrahydrocannabinol [THC] or terpenes), CBD-dominant hemp extract oil, capsules, dried cannabis, or prescription liquid solution. CBD does not have the same psychoactivity as THC, and will negate the psychoactive effects of THC on the body if both are present.[13][18][20][21] As of 2018, the mechanism of action for its biological effects has not been determined.[18][20] Unlike THC, which acts on the cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1) as a partial agonist, CBD instead is a negative allosteric modulator of CB1 receptors.

In the United States, the cannabidiol drug Epidiolex was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2018 for the treatment of two epilepsy disorders. While the 2018 United States Farm Bill removed hemp and hemp extracts (including CBD) from the Controlled Substances Act, the marketing and sale of CBD formulations for medical use or as an ingredient in dietary supplements or manufactured foods remains illegal under FDA regulation, as of 2021.


In the United States, the FDA has indicated only one brand of prescription cannabidiol called "Epidiolex" for the treatment of seizures associated with Dravet syndrome, Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, or tuberous sclerosis complex in people one year of age and older. While Epidiolex treatment is generally well tolerated, it is associated with minor adverse effects, such as gastrointestinal upset, decreased appetite, lethargy, sleepiness and poor sleep quality.

In the European Union, cannabidiol (Epidyolex) is indicated for use as adjunctive therapy of seizures associated with Lennox Gastaut syndrome (LGS) or Dravet syndrome (DS), in conjunction with clobazam, for people two years of age and older. In 2020, the label for Epidiolex in the US was expanded to include seizures associated with tuberous sclerosis complex. Epidiolex/Epidyolex is the first prescription formulation of plant-derived cannabidiol approved by regulatory bodies in the US and Europe.

Other uses
Research on other uses for cannabidiol includes several neurological disorders, but the findings have not been confirmed to establish such uses in clinical practice.In October 2019, the FDA issued an advisory warning that the effects of CBD during pregnancy or breastfeeding are unknown, indicating that the safety, doses, interactions with other drugs or foods, and side effects of CBD are not clinically defined, and may pose a risk to the mother and infant.[36]

Many claims are made for the therapeutic benefit of cannabidiol that are not backed by sound evidence. Some claims, such as treatment of cancer, are pseudoscience.

In 2020, the label for Epidiolex in the US was expanded to include treatment of seizures associated with tuberous sclerosis complex.

Non-intoxicating effects
Cannabidiol does not appear to have any intoxicating effects such as those caused by ∆9-THC in cannabis, but it is under preliminary research for its possible anti-anxiety and anti-psychotic effects. As the legal landscape and understanding about the differences in medical cannabinoids unfolds, experts are working to distinguish "medical cannabis" (with varying degrees of psychotropic effects and deficits in executive function) from "medical CBD therapies", which would commonly present as having a reduced or non-psychoactive side-effect profile.

Various strains of "medical cannabis" are found to have a significant variation in the ratios of CBD-to-THC and are known to contain other non-psychotropic cannabinoids. Any psychoactive cannabis, regardless of its CBD content, is derived from the flower (or bud) of the genus Cannabis. As defined by US federal law, non-psychoactive hemp (also commonly termed "industrial hemp"), regardless of its CBD content, is any part of the cannabis plant, whether growing or not, containing a ∆9-tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of no more than 0.3% on a dry-weight basis.[40] Certain standards are required for legal growing, cultivating, and producing the hemp plant, but there are no federal standards for quality being enforced in the hemp industry. Certain state regulations are in place, but vary state to state. For instance, the Colorado Industrial Hemp Program registers growers of industrial hemp and samples crops to verify that the dry-weight THC concentration does not exceed 0.3%.

Side effects
Research indicates that cannabidiol may reduce adverse effects of THC, particularly those causing intoxication and sedation, but only at high doses. Safety studies of cannabidiol showed it is well tolerated, but may cause tiredness, somnolence, sedation, diarrhea, or changes in appetite as common adverse effects with the most common being somnolence and sedation. Side effects of CBD are dose related.[43] Epidiolex documentation lists sleepiness, insomnia and poor quality sleep, decreased appetite, diarrhea, and fatigue. Low doses of cannabidiol cause DNA damage in human-derived cell lines.[45] Recently published data also suggest that cannabidiol is a carcinogen.

Potential interactions
Laboratory evidence indicated that cannabidiol may reduce THC clearance, increasing plasma concentrations which may raise THC availability to receptors and enhance its effect in a dose-dependent manner. In vitro, cannabidiol inhibited the activity of voltage-dependent sodium and potassium channels, which may affect neural activity. A recent study using X-ray crystallography showed that CBD binds inside the sodium channel pore at a novel site at the interface of the fenestrations and the central hydrophobic cavity of the channel. Binding at this site blocks the transmembrane-spanning sodium ion translocation pathway, providing a molecular mechanism for channel inhibition, which could contribute to a reduced excitability.[50] A small clinical trial reported that CBD partially inhibited the CYP2C-catalyzed hydroxylation of THC. Little is known about potential drug interactions, but CBD mediates a decrease in clobazam metabolism.

Veterinary medicine
Research
The number of research projects and scientific publications on cannabidiol and other cannabinoids in pets has surged in the late 2010s.

As of December 2020, there are no hemp-derived, cannabinoid-rich registered veterinary medicinal products in any of the major regions (see Legal status across countries).

In the US and other territories there are, however, numerous veterinary nutraceutical products available OTC. The lack of clarity in the regulations governing veterinary hemp food supplements allows for products of questionable quality to flood the market,[53][54] which may pose a risk to the wellbeing of pets and owners.

To understand better the benefits of CBD and associated compounds for the quality of life of animals, companies specialized in CBD products for animals have been funding research projects.
Canine osteoarthritis
CBD's ability to help regulate the endocannabinoid system and reduce the release of excitatory neurotransmitters could result in a retrograde inhibitory signal that lessens chronic pain responses. Studies in dogs with chronic pain associated with osteoarthritis showed an increase in level of activity in animals receiving CBD-rich food supplements.

Epilepsy
From the results seen in humans with drugs such as Epidiolex and Sativex in scientific studies and reviews, it could be expected that CBD-based products would be helpful to manage seizures in dogs. However, despite the numerous case reports presented by veterinary neurologists supporting the benefits of CBD as adjunctive therapy, as of December 2020, published controlled studies have not shown a statistically significant decrease in the number of seizures across the groups receiving CBD. Further research in this area is required before any clear conclusion can be drawn.

Pharmacokinetics
The oral bioavailability of CBD varies greatly across species and it is linked to the presentation and the time of administration. A 24-hour kinetic examination in dogs showed that the absorption of the cannabidiolic acid (CBDA) does occur, and that this molecule is absorbed least twice as well as CBD post oral ingestion.

It was found that the major metabolites of CBD in humans  are not prevalent in dogs, while 6-OH-CBD was found to be the primary metabolite in dogs receiving a CBD-enriched cannabis-derived herbal extract, suggesting that canine and human CBD metabolic route might be somewhat different.

Pharmacology
Pharmacodynamics
Cannabidiol has low affinity for the cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors, although it acts as an antagonist of CB1/CB2 agonists, despite this low affinity. The core effect of antagonism of CB1 receptors is reduced binding affinity of THC and any of its related isomers. Cannabidiol may be an antagonist of GPR55, a G protein-coupled receptor and putative cannabinoid receptor that is expressed in the caudate nucleus and putamen in the brain.It also may act as an inverse agonist of GPR3, GPR6, and GPR12. CBD has been shown to act as a serotonin 5-HT1A receptor partial agonist. At higher concentrations, CBD acts as an inverse agonist of 5-HT1A receptors. It is an allosteric modulator of the μ- and δ-opioid receptors as well. The pharmacological effects of CBD may involve PPARγ agonism, inhibition of voltage-gated cation channels, and intracellular calcium release.


Pharmaceutical preparations
Nabiximols (brand name Sativex), an oromucosal spray made of a complex botanical mixture containing cannabidiol (CBD), delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), and additional cannabinoid and non-cannabinoid constituents from cannabis sativa plants, was approved by Health Canada in 2005, to treat central neuropathic pain in multiple sclerosis, and in 2007, for cancer-related pain. In New Zealand, Sativex is "approved for use as an add-on treatment for symptom improvement in people with moderate to severe spasticity due to multiple sclerosis who have not responded adequately to other anti-spasticity medication."

Epidiolex is an orally administered cannabidiol solution. It was approved in 2018, by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treatment of two rare forms of childhood epilepsy, Lennox-Gastaut syndrome and Dravet syndrome, and seizures associated with tuberous sclerosis complex. In the US, it is approved in these indications for patients one year of age and older.


Efforts to isolate the active ingredients in cannabis were made in the 19th century. Cannabidiol was studied in 1940 from Minnesota wild hemp and Egyptian Cannabis indica resin. The chemical formula of CBD was proposed from a method for isolating it from wild hemp. Its structure and stereochemistry were determined in 1963.

Plant breeding
Selective breeding of cannabis plants has expanded and diversified as commercial and therapeutic markets develop. Some growers in the US succeeded in lowering the proportion of CBD-to-THC to accommodate customers who preferred varietals that were more mind-altering due to the higher THC and lower CBD content.In the US, hemp is classified by the federal government as cannabis containing no more than 0.3% THC by dry weight. This classification was established in the 2018 Farm Bill and was refined to include hemp-sourced extracts, cannabinoids, and derivatives in the definition of hemp.

Society and culture
Foods and beverages
cbd-infused cold brew coffee and tea from kickback cold brew
An example of beverages claiming to contain CBD in a Los Angeles grocery
Food and beverage products containing cannabidiol were widely marketed in the United States as early as 2017. Hemp seed ingredients which do not naturally contain THC or CBD (but which may be contaminated with trace amounts on the outside during harvesting) were declared by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as Generally recognized as safe (GRAS) in December 2018. CBD itself has not been declared GRAS, and under US federal law is illegal to sell as a food, dietary supplement, or animal feed. State laws vary considerably as non-medical cannabis and derived products have been legalized in some jurisdictions in the 2010s.

The global market size for CBD was predicted to exceed US$47 billion by 2028.

Similar to energy drinks and protein bars which may contain vitamin or herbal additives, food and beverage items can be infused with CBD as an alternative means of ingesting the substance. In the United States, numerous products are marketed as containing CBD, but in reality contain little or none.[103][107] Some companies marketing CBD-infused food products with claims that are similar to the effects of prescription drugs have received warning letters from the Food and Drug Administration for making unsubstantiated health claims. In February 2019, the New York City Department of Health announced plans to fine restaurants that sell food or drinks containing CBD, beginning in October 2019.


Sports
Cannabidiol has been used by professional and amateur athletes across disciplines and countries, with the World Anti-Doping Agency removing CBD from its banned substances list. The United States Anti-Doping Agency and United Kingdom-Anti-Doping Agency do not have anti-CBD policies, with the latter stating that, "CBD is not currently listed on the World Anti-Doping Agency Prohibited List. As a result, it is permitted to use in sport, though the intended benefits are unclear and not backed by clinical evidence. All other cannabinoids (including but not limited to cannabis, hashish, marijuana, and THC) are prohibited in-competition. The intention of the regulations is to prohibit cannabinoids that activate the same receptors in the brain as activated by THC." In 2019, the cannabis manufacturer, Canopy Growth, acquired majority ownership of BioSteel Sports Nutrition, which is developing CBD products under endorsement by numerous professional athletes. The National Hockey League Alumni Association began a project with Canopy Growth to determine if CBD or other cannabis products might improve neurological symptoms and quality of life in head-injured players. Numerous professional athletes use CBD, primarily for treating pain.

Legal status
Australia
Prescription medicine (Schedule 4) for therapeutic use containing two percent (2.0%) or less of other cannabinoids commonly found in cannabis (such as ∆9-THC). A Schedule 4 drug under the SUSMP is a Prescription Only Medicine, or Prescription Animal Remedy – Substances, the use or supply of which should be by or on the order of persons permitted by state or territory legislation to prescribe and should be available from a pharmacist on prescription.

In June 2020, the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) published a consultation on a proposal to pave the way to make "low dose" CBD available to consumer/patients via pharmacists only through moving products from Schedule 4 to 3. Any products sold would need to have their safety, quality and efficacy pre-assessed by the TGA and be formally approved for sale (details to be outlined by TGA). They would be made available to over 18s only, with the maximum daily dose of 60 mg/day, up to 2% THC finished product allowed, 30-day maximum supply, plant-derived or synthetic. This proposal is based on an initial literature review on the safety of low dose CBD published by the TGA in April 2020. Epidyolex was approved for the adjunctive therapy of seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome or with Dravet syndrome in September 2020.

Bulgaria
In 2020, Bulgaria became the first country in the European Union to allow retail sales of food products and supplements containing CBD, despite the ongoing discussion within the EU about the classification of CBD as a novel food. But there exists a legal gap because of the lack of a legally-permissible minimum amount of THC in the products containing cannabinoids.

Canada
In October 2018, cannabidiol became legal for recreational and medical use by the federal Cannabis Act. As of August 2019, CBD products in Canada could only be sold by authorized retailers or federally licensed medical companies, limiting their access to the general public. Nonetheless, with online delivery services and over 2,600 authorized cannabis retail stores as of October 2021, accessibility has steadily increased over time. The Canadian government states that CBD products "are subject to all of the rules and requirements that apply to cannabis under the Cannabis Act and its regulations." It requires "a processing licence to manufacture products containing CBD for sale, no matter what the source of the CBD is, and that CBD and products containing CBD, such as cannabis oil, may only be sold by an authorized retailer or licensed seller of medical CBD." Edible CBD products were scheduled to be permitted for sale in Canada on October 17, 2019, for human consumption.

As of August 2020, it is still illegal to carry cannabis and cannabis-derived products (including products containing CBD) across the Canadian border. If one carries any amount of cannabis for any purpose (including medical), it needs to be declared to the Canada Border Services Agency. Not declaring it is a serious criminal offence.

European Union
Photograph of CBD Vending machine in Italy
A CBD product vending machine in Italy
In 2019, the European Commission announced that CBD and other cannabinoids would be classified as "novel foods", meaning that CBD products would require authorization under the EU Novel Food Regulation stating that because "this product was not used as a food or food ingredient before May 15, 1997, before it may be placed on the market in the EU as a food or food ingredient, a safety assessment under the Novel Food Regulation is required." The recommendation – applying to CBD extracts, synthesized CBD, and all CBD products, including CBD oil – was scheduled for a final ruling by the European Commission in March 2019. If approved, manufacturers of CBD products would be required to conduct safety tests and prove safe consumption, indicating that CBD products would not be eligible for legal commerce until at least 2021.In December 2020, the European Commission concluded that CBD should not be considered as drug and can be qualified as food.

Cannabidiol is listed in the EU Cosmetics Ingredient Database (CosIng). However, the listing of an ingredient, assigned with an INCI name, in CosIng does not mean it is to be used in cosmetic products or is approved for such use.

Several industrial hemp varieties can be legally cultivated in Western Europe. A variety such as "Fedora 17" has a cannabinoid profile consistently around 1%, with THC less than 0.3%.

Hong Kong
In 2022, the HKSAR Government proposed a ban on any use of cannabidiol (including for academic research and by medical professionals) within the Hong Kong territory, making Hong Kong the first jurisdiction in the world to have complete prohibition of cannabidiol, starting from Feb 1, 2023, in part due to the possible presence of THC which is illegal in Hong Kong, according to a research subsidized by the Hong Kong SAR Government.

New Zealand
In 2017, the government made changes to the regulations so that restrictions would be removed, which meant a doctor was able to prescribe cannabidiol to patients.

The passing of the Misuse of Drugs (Medicinal Cannabis) Amendment Act in December 2018 means cannabidiol is no longer a controlled drug in New Zealand, but is a prescription medicine under the Medicines Act, with the restriction that "the tetrahydrocannabinols (THCs) and specified substances within the product must not exceed 2 percent of the total CBD, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and other specified substances."

Russian Federation
According to a document received in response to an appeal to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation, measures of state control in the Russian Federation regarding CBD have not been established. However, there is also a response from the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation indicating that CBD can be considered as an isomer of restricted THC. On February 17, 2020, the deputy of the Moscow City Duma Darya Besedina sent an official request to the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Mikhail Mishustin with a request to eliminate that legal ambiguity by publishing official explanations and, if necessary, making required changes in the corresponding government decree.

Singapore
Singapore allows on a case by case basis medical cannabis, usually as a last resort drug. Each case is evaluated by the government, and largely comes in the form of Cannabidiol. However, the country is flexible to what is required for patient treatment, despite having someone of the strictest drug laws on earth.

Sweden
Cannabidiol is classified as a medical product in Sweden. However, in July 2019, Supreme Court of Sweden ruled that CBD oil with any concentration of THC falls under the narcotic control laws.

Switzerland
While THC remains illegal, cannabidiol is not subject to the Swiss Narcotic Acts because this substance does not produce a comparable psychoactive effect. Cannabis products containing less than 1% THC can be sold and purchased legally.

Ukraine
On 7 April 2021 the Ukrainian government legalised use of isolated cannabidiol. Additionally, it approved Nabiximols, a cannabidiol-containing drug, for medical use.

United Kingdom
Cannabidiol, in an oral-mucosal spray formulation combined with delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, is a product available by prescription for the relief of severe spasticity due to multiple sclerosis (where other anti-spasmodics have not been effective).

Until 2017, products containing cannabidiol marketed for medical purposes were classed as medicines by the UK regulatory body, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), and could not be marketed without regulatory approval for the medical claims. As of 2018, cannabis oil is legal to possess, buy, and sell in the UK, providing the product does not contain more than 1 milligram of THC and is not advertised as providing a medicinal benefit.

In January 2019, the UK Food Standards Agency indicated it would regard CBD products, including CBD oil, as a novel food having no history of use before May 1997, and stated that such products must have authorisation and proven safety before being marketed. The deadline for companies with existing products to submit a full and validated novel foods application with the FSA is 31 March 2021; failure to do so before this date will exclude those companies from selling CBD. New products containing CBD after this deadline will require a fully approved application.

In February 2020, the UK FSA advised vulnerable people, such as pregnant women, breastfeeding mothers, and those already taking medication for other medical concerns not to take CBD. The FSA further recommended that healthy adults should not consume more than 70 mg CBD per day.

United Nations
Cannabidiol is not scheduled under the Convention on Psychotropic Substances or any other UN drug treaties. In 2018, the World Health Organization recommended that CBD remain unscheduled.
United States
As of 2021, cannabidiol extracted from marijuana remains a Schedule I Controlled Substance, and is not approved as a prescription drug or dietary supplement or allowed for interstate commerce in the United States. CBD derived from hemp (with 0.3% THC or lower) is legal to sell as a cosmetics ingredient or for other purposes not regulated by the FDA, but cannot be sold under federal law as an ingredient in food, dietary supplement, or animal feed. It is a common misconception that the legal ability to sell hemp (which may contain CBD), and hemp extracts and derivatives (including CBD), makes CBD legal for sale as a supplement or medicine.

In September 2018, following its approval by the FDA for rare types of childhood epilepsy, the GW Pharmaceuticals drug Epidiolex was rescheduled (by the Drug Enforcement Administration) as a Schedule V drug to allow for its prescription use.[160] Epidiolex still requires rescheduling in some states before it can be prescribed in those states.

In 2013, a CNN program that featured Charlotte's Web cannabis brought increased attention to the use of CBD in the treatment of seizure disorders. Since then, 16 states have passed laws to allow the use of CBD products with a physician's recommendation (instead of a prescription) for treatment of certain medical conditions. This is in addition to the 30 states that have passed comprehensive medical cannabis laws, which allow for the use of cannabis products with no restrictions on THC content. Of these 30 states, eight have legalized the use and sale of cannabis products without requirement for a physician's recommendation. As of October 2020, CBD was not an FDA-approved drug eligible for interstate commerce,[103] and the FDA encouraged manufacturers to follow procedures for drug approval.

Federal illegality has made it difficult historically to conduct research on CBD. Cannabidiol is currently the subject of an FDA investigational new drug evaluation, and is not considered legal as a dietary supplement or food ingredient, as of October 2020. CBD is openly sold in head shops and health food stores in some states where such sales have not been explicitly legalized.

State and local governments may also regulate cannabidiol. For example, the Massachusetts Department of Agricultural Resources issued a rule in June 2019 aligning state CBD regulations with FDA regulations. This means that although recreational marijuana is legal in the state, CBD cannot legally be sold in food or as a dietary supplement under state law.

Health concerns
In November 2019, the FDA issued concerns about the safety of cannabidiol, stating that CBD use has potential to cause liver injury, interfere with the mechanisms of prescription drugs, produce gastrointestinal disorders, or affect alertness and mood. In October 2020, the FDA updated its safety concerns about CBD, acknowledging the unknown effects of protracted use, how it affects the developing brain, fetus or infants during breastfeeding, whether it interacts with dietary supplements or prescription drugs, whether male fertility is affected, and its possible side effects, such as drowsiness.

Mislabeling and poisoning
Studies conducted by the FDA from 2014 through 2019 have determined that a majority of CBD products are not accurately labeled with the amount of CBD they contain. For example, a 2017 analysis of cannabidiol content in oil, tincture, or liquid vape products purchased online in the United States showed that 69% were mislabeled, with 43% having higher and 26% having lower content than stated on product labels.

In 2020, the FDA conducted a study of 147 CBD products and found that half contained THC.

As of September 2019, 1,085 people contacted US poison control centers about CBD-induced illnesses, doubling the number of cases over the 2018 rate and increasing by 9 times the case numbers of 2017.[176] Of cases reported in 2019, more than 33% received medical attention and 46 people were admitted to a hospital intensive care unit, possibly due to exposure to other products, or drug interactions with CBD.

2018 Farm Bill and hemp
The 2014 Farm Bill legalized the sale of "non-viable hemp material" grown within states participating in the Hemp Pilot Program which defined hemp as cannabis containing less than 0.3% of THC. The 2018 United States Farm Bill removed the hemp plant and all "derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than 0.3 percent on a dry weight basis," including CBD, from the Controlled Substances Act, making them legal to manufacture in the United States. The FDA retains regulatory authority over hemp-derived CBD, while the DEA is not involved in the regulation of legally-compliant hemp and hemp products. The 2018 Farm Bill requires that research and development of CBD for a therapeutic purpose would have to be conducted under notification and reporting to the FDA. In the United States, hemp-derived CBD is legal to sell for industrial purposes or as a cosmetics ingredient, but under FDA regulation it cannot be marketed for medical use or as an ingredient in food, dietary supplements, or animal feed.

FDA warning letters
From 2015 to May 2022, the FDA issued dozens of warning letters to American manufacturers of CBD products for false advertising and illegal interstate marketing of CBD as an unapproved drug to treat diseases, such as cancer, osteoarthritis, symptoms of opioid withdrawal, Alzheimer's disease, and pet disorders. Chemical analysis of CBD products found that many did not contain the levels of CBD claimed in advertising.

In December 2020, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) initiated a law enforcement crackdown on American companies marketing CBD products as unapproved drugs. The warning also applied to hemp CBD capsules and oil that were being marketed illegally while not adhering to the federal definition of a dietary supplement.In finance, a bull is a speculator in a stock market who buys a holding in a stock in the expectation that, in the very short-term, it will rise in value, whereupon they will sell the stock to make a quick profit on the transaction. Strictly speaking, the term applies to speculators who borrow money to fund such a purchase, and are thus under great pressure to complete the transaction before the loan is repayable or the seller of the stock demands payment on settlement day for delivery of the bargain. If the value of the stock falls contrary to their expectation, a bull suffers a loss, frequently very large if they are trading on margin. A bull has a great incentive to "talk-up" the value of their stock or to manipulate the market in their stock, for example by spreading false rumour, to procure a buyer or to cause a temporary price increase which will provide them with the selling opportunity and profit they require.

A bull must be contrasted with an investor, who purchases a stock in expectation of a medium-term (say 5 years) or long-term increase in value due to the underlying performance of the company and its assets. The speculator who takes a directly opposite view to the bull is the bear, who speculates on a stock decreasing in value, having sold short. A bull market is a period during which stock market prices rise over a sustained period, therefore to the advantage of bulls.

History of the term
An early mention of the terms bull and bear appears in the 1769 edition of Thomas Mortimer's book Every Man his own Broker, published in London, as follows, relating to speculators operating in Jonathan's Coffee-House in Exchange Alley (the original London proto-Stock Exchange)

"A Bull is the name by which the gentlemen of 'Change Alley choose to call all persons who contract to buy any quantity of government securities, without an intention or ability to pay for it, and who consequently are obliged to sell it again, either at a profit or a loss, before the time comes when they have contracted to take it".
This refers to the former practice of stock-brokers, abolished circa 1980's in London, allowing their clients to trade on credit during a period of about two weeks, known as an account, on the completion of which all purchases and sales made during the account period had to be paid for on the settlement date. A net trading loss would result in the client having to make a cash payment to the broker.

Early example
Mortimer gives an example of a bull as follows

"Thus a man who in March buys in the Alley £40,000 four per cent annuities 1760, for the rescounters in May, and at the same time is not worth ten pounds in the world, or, which is the same thing, has his money employed in trade, and cannot really take the annuities so contracted for, is a Bull, till such time as he can discharge himself of his heavy burden by selling it to another person, and so adjusting his account, which, if the whole house be Bulls, he will be obliged to do at a considerable loss; and in the interim (while he is betwixt hope and fear, and is watching every opportunity to ease himself of his load on advantageous terms, and when the fatal day is approaching that he must sell, let the price be what it will) he goes lowring up and down the house, and from office to office; and if he is asked a civil question, he answers with a surly look, and by his dejected, gloomy aspect and moroseness, he not badly represents the animal he is named after".


What Is a Bull Market?
A bull market is the condition of a financial market in which prices are rising or are expected to rise. The term "bull market" is most often used to refer to the stock market but can be applied to anything that is traded, such as bonds, real estate, currencies, and commodities.

Because prices of securities rise and fall essentially continuously during trading, the term "bull market" is typically reserved for extended periods in which a large portion of security prices are rising. Bull markets tend to last for months or even years.

KEY TAKEAWAYS
A bull market is a period of time in financial markets when the price of an asset or security rises continuously.
The commonly accepted definition of a bull market is when stock prices rise by 20% after two declines of 20% each.
Traders employ a variety of strategies, such as increased buy and hold and retracement, to profit off bull markets.


Understanding Bull Markets
Bull markets are characterized by optimism, investor confidence, and expectations that strong results should continue for an extended period of time. It is difficult to predict consistently when the trends in the market might change. Part of the difficulty is that psychological effects and speculation may sometimes play a large role in the markets.

There is no specific and universal metric used to identify a bull market. Nonetheless, perhaps the most common definition of a bull market is a situation in which stock prices rise by 20% or more from recent lows.


ince bull markets are difficult to predict, analysts can typically only recognize this phenomenon after it has happened. A notable bull market in recent history was the period between 2003 and 2007. During this time, the S&P 500 increased by a significant margin after a previous decline; as the 2008 financial crisis took effect, major declines occurred again after the bull market run.


Characteristics of a Bull Market
Bull markets generally take place when the economy is strengthening or when it is already strong. They tend to happen in line with strong gross domestic product (GDP) and a drop in unemployment and will often coincide with a rise in corporate profits. Investor confidence will also tend to climb throughout a bull market period. The overall demand for stocks will be positive, along with the overall tone of the market. In addition, there will be a general increase in the amount of IPO activity during bull markets.

Notably, some of the factors above are more easily quantifiable than others. While corporate profits and unemployment are quantifiable, it can be more difficult to gauge the general tone of market commentary, for instance. Supply and demand for securities will seesaw: supply will be weak while demand will be strong. Investors will be eager to buy securities, while few will be willing to sell. In a bull market, investors are more willing to take part in the (stock) market in order to gain profits.

Bull vs. Bear Markets
The opposite of a bull market is a bear market, which is characterized by falling prices and typically shrouded in pessimism. The commonly held belief about the origin of these terms suggests that the use of "bull" and "bear" to describe markets comes from the way the animals attack their opponents. A bull thrusts its horns up into the air, while a bear swipes its paws downward. These actions are metaphors for the movement of a market. If the trend is up, it's a bull market. If the trend is down, it's a bear market.

Bull and bear markets often coincide with the economic cycle, which consists of four phases: expansion, peak, contraction, and trough. The onset of a bull market is often a leading indicator of economic expansion. Because public sentiment about future economic conditions drives stock prices, the market frequently rises even before broader economic measures, such as gross domestic product (GDP) growth, begin to tick up. Likewise, bear markets usually set in before economic contraction takes hold. A look back at a typical U.S. recession reveals a falling stock market several months ahead of GDP decline.

How to Take Advantage of a Bull Market
Investors who want to benefit from a bull market should buy early in order to take advantage of rising prices and sell them when they’ve reached their peak. Although it is hard to determine when the bottom and peak will take place, most losses will be minimal and are usually temporary. Below, we'll explore several prominent strategies investors utilize during bull market periods. However, because it is difficult to assess the state of the market as it exists currently, these strategies involve at least some degree of risk as well.

Buy and Hold
One of the most basic strategies in investing is the process of buying a particular security and holding onto it, potentially to sell it at a later date. This strategy necessarily involves confidence on the part of the investor: why hold onto a security unless you expect its price to rise? For this reason, the optimism that comes along with bull markets helps to fuel the buy and hold approach.

Increased Buy and Hold
Increased buy and hold is a variation of the straightforward buy and hold strategy, and it involves additional risk. The premise behind the increased buy and hold approach is that an investor will continue to add to their holdings in a particular security so long as it continues to increase in price. One common method for increasing holdings suggests that an investor will buy an additional fixed quantity of shares for every increase in the stock price of a pre-set amount.

Retracement Additions
A retracement is a brief period in which the general trend in a security's price is reversed. Even during a bull market, it's unlikely that stock prices will only ascend. Rather, there are likely to be shorter periods of time in which small dips occur as well, even as the general trend continues upward.

Some investors watch for retracements within a bull market and move to buy during these periods. The thinking behind this strategy is that, presuming that the bull market continues, the price of the security in question will quickly move back up, retroactively providing the investor with a discounted purchase price.

Full Swing Trading
Perhaps the most aggressive way of attempting to capitalize on a bull market is the process known as full swing trading. Investors utilizing this strategy will take very active roles, using short-selling and other techniques to attempt to squeeze out maximum gains as shifts occur within the context of a larger bull market.

Bull Market Example
The most prolific bull market in modern American history started at the end of the stagflation era in 1982 and concluded during the dotcom bust in 2000. During this secular bull market—a term that denotes a bull market lasting many years—the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) averaged 15% annual returns.
3
 The NASDAQ, a tech-heavy exchange, increased its value more than three-fold between 1995 and 2000, rising from 755 to over 2,400.
4
 A protracted bear market followed the 1982-2000 bull market.
5

From 2000 to 2009, the market struggled to establish footing and delivered average annual returns of 1.16%. However, 2009 saw the start of a more than ten-year bull market run.
6
 Analysts believe that the last bull market started on March 9, 2009, and was mainly led by an upswing in technology stocks.
7

Why Is It Called a "Bull" Market When Prices Go Up?
The actual origin of the term "bull" is subject to debate. The terms "bear" (for down markets) and "bull" (for up markets) are thought by some to derive from the way in which each animal attacks its opponents. That is, a bull will thrust its horns up into the air, while a bear will swipe down. These actions were then related metaphorically to the movement of a market. If the trend was up, it was considered a bull market. If the trend was down, it was a bear market.

Others point to Shakespeare's plays, which make reference to battles involving bulls and bears. In "Macbeth," the ill-fated titular character says his enemies have tethered him to a stake but "bear-like, I must fight the course." In "Much Ado About Nothing," the bull is a savage but noble beast. Several other explanations also exist.

Are We in a Bull Market As of 2022?
Generically, a bull market exists if the market has risen 20% or more above its near-term lows. Since the dramatic market sell-off during the 2008-09 financial crisis, the stock market has shown a resilient bull market, rising significantly, and reaching new all-time highs more than ten years after that market crash (despite some sharp pullbacks along the way).

What Makes Stock Prices Rise in a Bull Market?
Bull markets often exist side-by-side a strong, robust, and growing economy. Stock prices are informed by future expectations of profits and the ability of firms to generate cash flows. A strong production economy, high employment, and rising GDP all suggest profits will continue to grow, and this is reflected in rising stock prices. Low interest rates and low corporate tax rates also are positive for corporate profitability.

Why Do Bull Markets Sometimes Falter and Become Bear Markets?
When the economy hits a rough patch, for instance in the face of recession or spike in unemployment, it becomes difficult to sustain rising stock prices. Moreover, recessions are often accompanied by a negative turn in investor and consumer sentiment, where market psychology becomes more concerned with fear or reducing risk than greed or risk-taking.What Is a Bear Market?
A bear market is when a market experiences prolonged price declines. It typically describes a condition in which securities prices fall 20% or more from recent highs amid widespread pessimism and negative investor sentiment.

Bear markets are often associated with declines in an overall market or index like the S&P 500, but individual securities or commodities can also be considered to be in a bear market if they experience a decline of 20% or more over a sustained period of time—typically two months or more. Bear markets also may accompany general economic downturns such as a recession. Bear markets may be contrasted with upward-trending bull markets.

KEY TAKEAWAYS
Bear markets occur when prices in a market decline by more than 20%, often accompanied by negative investor sentiment and declining economic prospects.

Bear markets can be cyclical or longer-term. The former lasts for several weeks or a couple of months and the latter can last for several years or even decades.
Short selling, put options, and inverse ETFs are some of the ways in which investors can make money during a bear market as prices fall.

Understanding Bear Markets
Stock prices generally reflect future expectations of cash flows and profits from companies. As growth prospects wane, and expectations are dashed, prices of stocks can decline. Herd behavior, fear, and a rush to protect downside losses can lead to prolonged periods of depressed asset prices.

One definition of a bear market says markets are in bear territory when stocks, on average, fall at least 20% off their high. But 20% is an arbitrary number, just as a 10% decline is an arbitrary benchmark for a correction. Another definition of a bear market is when investors are more risk-averse than risk-seeking. This kind of bear market can last for months or years as investors shun speculation in favor of boring, sure bets.

The causes of a bear market often vary, but in general, a weak or slowing or sluggish economy, bursting market bubbles, pandemics, wars, geopolitical crises, and drastic paradigm shifts in the economy such as shifting to online economy, are all factors that might cause a bear market. The signs of a weak or slowing economy are typically low employment, low disposable income, weak productivity, and a drop in business profits. In addition, any intervention by the government in the economy can also trigger a bear market.

For example, changes in the tax rate or in the federal funds rate can lead to a bear market. Similarly, a drop in investor confidence may also signal the onset of a bear market. When investors believe something is about to happen, they will take action—in this case, selling off shares to avoid losses. 

Bear markets can last for multiple years or just several weeks. A secular bear market can last anywhere from 10 to 20 years and is characterized by below-average returns on a sustained basis. There may be rallies within secular bear markets where stocks or indexes rally for a period, but the gains are not sustained, and prices revert to lower levels. A cyclical bear market, on the other hand, can last anywhere from a few weeks to several months.

The U.S. major market indexes were close to bear market territory on December 24, 2018, falling just shy of a 20% drawdown.
More recently, major indexes including the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) fell sharply into bear market territory between March 11 and March 12, 2020.

Prior to that, the last prolonged bear market in the United States occurred between 2007 and 2009 during the Financial Crisis and lasted for roughly 17 months. The S&P 500 lost 50% of its value during that time.

In February 2020, global stocks entered a sudden bear market in the wake of the global coronavirus pandemic, sending the DJIA down 38% from its all-time high on February 12 (29,568.77) to a low on March 23 (18,213.65) in just over one month.
However, both the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq 100 made new highs by August 2020.

Bear Markets vs. Corrections
A bear market should not be confused with a correction, which is a short-term trend that has a duration of fewer than two months. While corrections offer a good time for value investors to find an entry point into stock markets, bear markets rarely provide suitable points of entry. This barrier is because it is almost impossible to determine a bear market's bottom. Trying to recoup losses can be an uphill battle unless investors are short sellers or use other strategies to make gains in falling markets.

Between 1900 and 2018, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) had approximately 33 bear markets, averaging one every three years.
One of the most notable bear markets in recent history coincided with the global financial crisis occurring between October 2007 and March 2009. During that time the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) declined 54%.
The global COVID-19 pandemic caused the most recent 2020 bear market for the S&P 500 and DJIA. The Nasdaq Composite most recently entered a bear market in March 2022 on fears surrounding war in Ukraine, economic sanctions against Russia, and high inflation.

Short Selling in Bear Markets
Investors can make gains in a bear market by short selling. This technique involves selling borrowed shares and buying them back at lower prices. It is an extremely risky trade and can cause heavy losses if it does not work out. A short seller must borrow the shares from a broker before a short sell order is placed. The short seller’s profit and loss amount is the difference between the price where the shares were sold and the price where they were bought back, referred to as "covered."

For example, an investor shorts 100 shares of a stock at $94. The price falls and the shares are covered at $84. The investor pockets a profit of $10 x 100 = $1,000. If the stock trades higher unexpectedly, the investor is forced to buy back the shares at a premium, causing heavy losses. 

Puts and Inverse ETFs in Bear Markets
A put option gives the owner the freedom, but not the responsibility, to sell a stock at a specific price on, or before, a certain date. Put options can be used to speculate on falling stock prices, and hedge against falling prices to protect long-only portfolios. Investors must have options privileges in their accounts to make such trades. Outside of a bear market, buying puts is generally safer than short selling.

Inverse ETFs are designed to change values in the opposite direction of the index they track. For example, the inverse ETF for the S&P 500 would increase by 1% if the S&P 500 index decreased by 1%. There are many leveraged inverse ETFs that magnify the returns of the index they track by two and three times. Like options, inverse ETFs can be used to speculate or protect portfolios. Real-World Examples of Bear Markets
The ballooning housing mortgage default crisis caught up with the stock market in October 2007. Back then, the S&P 500 had touched a high of 1,565.15 on October 9, 2007.
By March 5, 2009, it had crashed to 682.55, as the extent and ramifications of housing mortgage defaults on the overall economy became clear.
The U.S. major market indexes were again close to bear market territory on December 24, 2018, falling just shy of a 20% drawdown.


Most recently, the Dow Jones Industrial Average went into a bear market on March 11, 2020, and the S&P 500 entered a bear market on March 12, 2020.

This followed the longest bull market on record for the index, which started in March 2009. Stocks were driven down by the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, which brought with it mass lockdowns and the fear of depressed consumer demand. During this period, the Dow Jones fell sharply from all-time highs close to 30,000 to lows below 19,000 in a matter of weeks. From February 19 to March 23, the S&P 500 declined 34%.

Other examples include the aftermath of the bursting of the dot com bubble in March 2000, which wiped out approximately 49% of the S&P 500's value and lasted until October 2002;
and the Great Depression which began with the stock market collapse of October 28-29, 1929.



The cannabis industry is composed of legal cultivators and producers, consumers, independent industrial standards bodies, ancillary products and services, regulators and researchers concerning cannabis and its industrial derivative, hemp. The cannabis industry has been inhibited by regulatory restrictions for most of recent history, but the legal market has emerged rapidly as more governments legalize medical and adult use. Uruguay became the first country to legalize recreational marijuana through legislation in December, 2013 Cannabis in Uruguay. Canada became the first country to legalize private sales of recreational marijuana with Bill C-45 in 2018 Cannabis in Canada.

Marijuana (drug) sales in North America reached $6.7 billion in 2016, representing 30% growth year-over-year. According to a report by university researcher Jon Gettman, cannabis is the United States' largest cash crop and "a pervasive and ineradicable part of the national economy". A 2015 ArcView Group report stated that it was the fastest growing industry in the United States. The industry in the United States is expected to grow from $2 billion in 2014 to as much as $10 billion in 2018, depending on legalization outcomes. By one estimate the industry in the United States could be $35 billion in 2020. The legal market is estimated to be more than $10 billion as of September 2020, and a report by Morningstar predicts, "nearly 25% average annual growth for the U.S. recreational market and nearly 15% for the medical market through 2030."

According to GQ magazine in mid-2017, it was the second largest cash crop in the U.S., after corn, and worth over $40 billion.

The national  hemp market was $600 million in 2015: 3  Accurate predictions of potential future legal markets for hemp are deemed impossible to predict due to "the absence since the 1950s of any commercial and unrestricted hemp production in the United States"

In a Huffington Post interview, Mark Kleiman, the "Pot Czar" of Washington state, said he was concerned that the National Cannabis Industry Association would favor profits over public health. He also said that it could become a predatory body like the lobbying arms of the tobacco and alcohol industries. Kleiman said: "The fact that the National Cannabis Industry Association has hired itself a K Street suit  is not a good sign."

United States Financial Institutions, CPAs, Lawyers struggle with conflicting advice from NASBA and Treasury over their risks to provide services to the legal cannabis industry.


Uruguay
Cannabis in Uruguay was legalized for adult use in December, 2013. Sales of marijuana are regulated through government distribution with a state-mandated price of $1.30 per gram. Access to marijuana is legal through four sources: medical marijuana through the Ministry of Health, home-grown marijuana, membership clubs, and sales to adults in drugstores.

Canada
Canada became the second country to legalize cannabis for adult use on October 17, 2018 Cannabis in Canada. As of December 2017, there were 79 licensed marijuana producers in Canada with most concentrated in Ontario and British Columbia. According Deloitte, the base retail market is valued at $4.9-$8.7 billion annually. Including ancillary opportunities, Deloitte estimates a market worth $12.7-$22.6 billion annually, demonstrating an upside of more than $20 billion.

Ancillary products and services
The cannabis industry is supported by a network of ancillary products and services that do not "touch the plant". The most common ancillary services are professional services followed by information services, banking services, and security. Cultivation structures, installments, and equipment are the most common ancillary products followed by consumption devices, paraphernalia, packaging, processing equipment, software, security equipment, and laboratory supplies. The addition of ancillary products and services amounts to an economic impact that is estimated at four times the value of direct sales of cannabis. Based on this multiplier, the total economic impact of the cannabis industry in the United States was $16-$18 billion in 2016 and is expected to reach $47.6-$68.4 billion by 2021.

University involvement
Involvement from universities has increased as the industry gains legitimacy worldwide. Northern Michigan University initiated their Medicinal Plant Chemistry Program in 2017, the first undergraduate degree program preparing students for work related to the production, analysis, and distribution of medicinal plants. Daniele Piomelli, a professor at University of California-Irvine, developed an interdisciplinary cannabis research program called the Institute for the Study of Cannabis with the mission to advance cannabis knowledge in academia.

Green Wolverine, founded at the University of Michigan's Ross School of Business in 2017, is a nonprofit corporation composed of university student organizations centered on acquiring knowledge related to legal business activities in the cannabis industry. The mission is to discover opportunities for success for university students in cannabis or related fields through education, networking, and recruiting.

Hocking College has an accredited Cannabis Lab Technician associates degree as part of their Lab Sciences Program. It was developed by Dr. Jonathan Cachat in 2018.

Cannabis accessories
Selling accessories related to cannabis is not explicitly illegal in most countries, and such products has been gaining popularity for several decades. As legal cannabis continues to spread, accessory sales have been growing rapidly.

Women in the industry
Most research, both governmental and privately funded, does not investigate women's roles and placement within the extremely lucrative and growing marijuana industry. Women have been historically blocked and subjugated to "feminine" work in the cannabis industry. There is often little to no mention of women among cannabis businesses in statistical reporting or business journals unless the focus is specifically on women or minorities. Since the first states, Colorado and Washington, legalized marijuana in 2012, the industry has undergone extreme growth both in terms of wealth, and in terms of employment. In 2017 only 26.9% of women held executive positions in the industry.[24] Also in 2017, the legal adult cannabis industry in the United States was worth around $7.7 billion and annual sales were expected to grow more to more than $24 billion by 2025. Slightly more current data by Forbes Magazine's 2019 survey of 166 cannabis businesses in 17 different states across the America finds that 38.5% of employees self-identified as female. While this number clearly rose since 2017, unfortunately the number of women who held "Director" or "Executive" roles in 2017 dropped to only 17.6%. Shockingly, 74% of companies surveyed have 10% or fewer female-identifying employees. More than 12% of the 166 companies had no females in "Director" or "Executive" positions while over 41% of them only had one woman in those categories. In 2021, Leafly, trusted cannabis education and location website, released their yearly job report stating that the legal cannabis industry supports 321,000 jobs with more than 77,000 new jobs created since 2020. While about 38% of women suffer from chronic diseases, only 4% of research and funds are used towards women’s healthcare and services. This leaves women to seek out alternative therapies. Given that women make up around 85% of all consumers purchasing and 85% of healthcare decisions, “women are central to the currently semi-legal developing cannabis market.” As females are consuming cannabis at higher rates than ever before, there is huge purchasing power related to health and wellness decision. The rapid growth of the industry presented by these number demonstrates it is essential to consider women in this industry as their purchasing power is the strongest when compared to other demographics.

Circling back to the earlier years of the industry, women were commonly pushed into more "feminine" work such as tending crops, trimming, clone work, and other more tedious tasks. The separation of women into these types of female ascribed work, contributed to a long history of gender-based barriers faced by women in the cannabis industry both in access to employment, raises, and equal pay. These gender-based barriers are key to examining women's place and access to the industry in present day, which is often overlooked or goes unacknowledged. Understanding women's historic and current place within the cannabis industry is key for all those a part of the industry as well as those interested in joining the industry, to combat discrimination and prejudice in the rapidly growing market.

In more recent years of the industry, some have theorized women's role within the industry is changing and argue the industry has become female friendly. This claim is disputed among scholars as some find women to be less concerned about risk factors than in the early years of the industry. As the cannabis industry continues to grow, there is evidence of higher numbers of female owners and executives compared with other United States businesses as a whole. It seems that women in the industry, in some ways, are starting to perform opposite to prior literature, displaying increased appeal for uncertainty and risk which is common among this industry. While the new evidence within the industry demonstrates growing numbers of women and confidence against unpredictability, which some could infer as greater access, there are still many gender-based barrier present in the industry that block women from equal treatment and acquirement.


The global legal marijuana market size was valued at USD 13.2 billion in 2021 and is expected to expand at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 25.5% from 2022 to 2030. The growing demand for legal marijuana has been a primary factor in the growth of the market. Recently, a large number of countries have legalized the use of medical marijuana for treating various ailments. A number of studies carried out show that medical marijuana and its derivatives can be used to treat symptoms of various diseases, for e.g., it has been successfully used to treat patients with chronic pain, chemotherapy-induced nausea, Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, and other neurological diseases. The FDA and other such associations have now started accepting the marijuana derivatives for the prescription of diseases in which it has proven to be useful. This is another factor for the quick turnaround of its legal status in a lot of countries. North America (the U.S. and Canada) has gone a step further and has sanctioned the use of recreational marijuana as well and more than two-thirds of the U.S. states have legalized marijuana.  

The pandemic severely affected the logistics network for cannabis and its derivatives and due to the ongoing restrictions, the government authorized dispensaries are also facing shortages owing to disruption in the supply chain network. Import and export of nearly all commodities essential or not have been affected as well. However, with the governments endorsing legalization, the demand has risen and is likely to be high in the next few years. Patients are opting for marijuana derivatives instead of the prescription medicines previously being used.

With the government policies changing, the demand for medical marijuana is also rising. A lot of countries that have legalized the use of medical marijuana are also paving way for its cultivation to cut on the imports and gain revenue in the form of taxes. This, in turn, has generated jobs in the industry and a lot more companies are dabbling in this territory. Several startups in the U.S. and Europe are now focusing on alternate uses of cannabis, other than recreational and medicinal. With so much happening in and around the cannabis industries, the countries are paving way for more liberal policies regarding its cultivation and usage in the medical field as well as industrial use.


The U.S. is seeing a growing number of cultivators for cannabis, including marijuana since this rakes in more revenues for the government and also cuts down on the cost of import. It has a myriad of applications from medical to industrial and since its legalization, the rise in its sale has been exponential and this has generated new opportunities to increase revenues. With the FDA-level authorizations underway, the market for legal marijuana is only going to expand. A large number of clinical trials will support the prowess of marijuana derivatives for it to be legally prescribed for indications.

Product Type Insights
The oil and tinctures segment held the largest revenue share of over 50.0%. The majority of the countries that have legalized marijuana have done so for its medicinal properties. Marijuana oil and tinctures are being studied extensively for multiple indications in a lot of countries. This is also expected to emerge as the fastest-growing segment over the forecast period in light of recent legalizations for medical cannabis and its derivatives. Oils extracted from cannabis are utilized for the treatment of vomiting and nausea caused due to cancer.

In addition, the cannabinoids that are present in the oil help in improving sleep disorders and alleviate anxiety and stress. The demand for oils and tinctures is anticipated to increase over the forecast period owing to a substantial increase in the number of patients preferring oil as compared to flowers. Moreover, children who need cannabis derivatives for their treatment cannot be suggested to use flowers to smoke and are instead being prescribed oils and tinctures due to the respiratory problems caused by smoking flowers.

Report SummaryTable of ContentsSegmentationMethodologyRequest a FREE Sample Copy
Report Overview
The global legal marijuana market size was valued at USD 13.2 billion in 2021 and is expected to expand at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 25.5% from 2022 to 2030. The growing demand for legal marijuana has been a primary factor in the growth of the market. Recently, a large number of countries have legalized the use of medical marijuana for treating various ailments. A number of studies carried out show that medical marijuana and its derivatives can be used to treat symptoms of various diseases, for e.g., it has been successfully used to treat patients with chronic pain, chemotherapy-induced nausea, Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, and other neurological diseases. The FDA and other such associations have now started accepting the marijuana derivatives for the prescription of diseases in which it has proven to be useful. This is another factor for the quick turnaround of its legal status in a lot of countries. North America (the U.S. and Canada) has gone a step further and has sanctioned the use of recreational marijuana as well and more than two-thirds of the U.S. states have legalized marijuana.

U.S. legal marijuana market size, by product type, 2020 - 2030 (USD Billion)
To learn more about this report, request a free sample copy

The pandemic severely affected the logistics network for cannabis and its derivatives and due to the ongoing restrictions, the government authorized dispensaries are also facing shortages owing to disruption in the supply chain network. Import and export of nearly all commodities essential or not have been affected as well. However, with the governments endorsing legalization, the demand has risen and is likely to be high in the next few years. Patients are opting for marijuana derivatives instead of the prescription medicines previously being used.

With the government policies changing, the demand for medical marijuana is also rising. A lot of countries that have legalized the use of medical marijuana are also paving way for its cultivation to cut on the imports and gain revenue in the form of taxes. This, in turn, has generated jobs in the industry and a lot more companies are dabbling in this territory. Several startups in the U.S. and Europe are now focusing on alternate uses of cannabis, other than recreational and medicinal. With so much happening in and around the cannabis industries, the countries are paving way for more liberal policies regarding its cultivation and usage in the medical field as well as industrial use.

COVID-19 legal marijuana market impact: 32.4% decrease in revenue from 2019 to 2020
Pandemic Impact

Post COVID Outlook

The legal marijuana market decreased by 32.4% from 2019 to 2020.

The market is estimated to witness a y-o-y growth of approximately 25% to 28% in the next 5 years.

Disruptions in the supply chain, situations of oversupply and undersupply in various geographic locations, and a decrease in prices are the major factors responsible for the revenue decline.

The shift in the trend of patients toward marijuana for adult use and legalization of marijuana for medical and/or adult-use is anticipated to grow post-pandemic.

The import-export business has been affected on a large scale owing to lockdowns and changes in regulations with respect to the transportation of marijuana and its products.

The number of patients adopting cannabis as a treatment is likely to increase due to the growth in the prevalence of medical conditions that require marijuana as a treatment, coupled with the availability of various marijuana-based consumer product types.

How has COVID19 impacted this market? To know more request a free sample copy

 

The U.S. is seeing a growing number of cultivators for cannabis, including marijuana since this rakes in more revenues for the government and also cuts down on the cost of import. It has a myriad of applications from medical to industrial and since its legalization, the rise in its sale has been exponential and this has generated new opportunities to increase revenues. With the FDA-level authorizations underway, the market for legal marijuana is only going to expand. A large number of clinical trials will support the prowess of marijuana derivatives for it to be legally prescribed for indications.

Product Type Insights
The oil and tinctures segment held the largest revenue share of over 50.0%. The majority of the countries that have legalized marijuana have done so for its medicinal properties. Marijuana oil and tinctures are being studied extensively for multiple indications in a lot of countries. This is also expected to emerge as the fastest-growing segment over the forecast period in light of recent legalizations for medical cannabis and its derivatives. Oils extracted from cannabis are utilized for the treatment of vomiting and nausea caused due to cancer.

In addition, the cannabinoids that are present in the oil help in improving sleep disorders and alleviate anxiety and stress. The demand for oils and tinctures is anticipated to increase over the forecast period owing to a substantial increase in the number of patients preferring oil as compared to flowers. Moreover, children who need cannabis derivatives for their treatment cannot be suggested to use flowers to smoke and are instead being prescribed oils and tinctures due to the respiratory problems caused by smoking flowers.

Report Coverage & Deliverables
PDF report & online dashboard will help you understand:
Competitive benchmarking
Historical data & forecasts
Company revenue shares
Regional opportunities
Latest trends & dynamics
Request a Free Sample Copy
The Grand Library - BI Enabled Market Research Database
Click on image to enlarge
Application Insights
The medical segment had the largest revenue share of over 80.0% in 2021. It is expected to grow at a steady rate from 2022 to 2030. The growth in this segment can be attributed to the recent legalization and decriminalization of marijuana for medical use. Patients in these geographic regions have been seen preferring the medical use of marijuana due to the ease of availability and economical pricing.

The chronic pain segment held the largest revenue share of over 25.0% in 2021. Cannabis derivatives have been extensively studied for their potency as an analgesic. It has shown far better results with lesser side effects than the regular medicines being prescribed till now. It has proven to reduce arthritic pain significantly with negligible side effects. With an increase in awareness surrounding the use of medical cannabis and its derivatives, the market is expected to grow steadily over the forecast period.

The adult-use segment is expected to emerge as the fastest-growing segment in the forecast period. In countries like the U.S. and Canada, where adult-use and medical use cannabis have both been legalized, people are still preferring adult-use marijuana due to the lack of reimbursements available for medical marijuana. In addition, changing consumer behavior toward recreational marijuana is yet another factor anticipated to boost the growth of the segment.

Regional Insights
North America held the leading revenue share of over 80.0% in 2021. The rapid increase in the rate at which the government is decriminalizing cannabis for both medical and adult-use or recreational use of marijuana is a key factor driving the regional market. This position is further strengthened by the presence of the majority of the big players in the cannabis market. With more than two-thirds of the U.S. falling under the legal territory for cannabis, the demand and supply both have increased, which is further boosting North America’s position as the forerunner.

Other regions like Europe, especially the U.K. and South American regions like Mexico, Colombia, and Ecuador have also legalized the use of cannabis, but only in very restricted quantities and for very specific purposes. This market is expected to grow steadily during the coming years in wake of the rising demand in these regions. Several countries are more welcoming to the legalization of cannabis in the Asia Pacific region. With clinical studies as proof of its capability as an analgesic, the countries with a large geriatric population will be fast-tracking the legalization process and can spur the growth of the industry in the region. Several start-ups have emerged for research and production of derivatives of cannabis in the rest of the regions. This is going to further enhance the growth of the cannabis market.

Key Companies & Market Share Insights
Marijuana products provide various medical benefits to the users, which has increased their adoption for the treatment of various chronic conditions. Hence, they are gaining traction within a short time. Moreover, competition in the global market is high because companies are focused on increasing their product offerings, entering new markets, and gaining new consumers.

The market is expanding at a rapid pace as a large number of European and Asian countries have legalized the medical use of marijuana. The first movers in the market are expected to capitalize by increasing their regional presence and consolidating their market share. Various regulatory, quality and pricing norms are also impacting cross-border trade.